docs/java/dependency-injection.md, before:

# Dependency injection

Custom wrapper around Guice. Made to look similar to .NET DI.

Supporting lifetimes, scopes, and injecting `ServiceProvider`.

Use `getService` when a missing binding is acceptable or `getRequiredService`
to throw an exception if the service isn't registered, mirroring .NET's
`GetRequiredService`.

```java
package com.myservicebus;

import com.myservicebus.di.ServiceCollection;
import com.myservicebus.di.ServiceProvider;
import com.myservicebus.di.ServiceScope;

public class Main {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        ServiceCollection services = new ServiceCollection();
        services.addSingleton(MyService.class, MyServiceImpl.class);
        services.addScoped(MyScopedService.class);
        services.addScoped(MySecondService.class);

        ServiceProvider provider = services.buildServiceProvider();

        try (ServiceScope scope = provider.createScope()) {
            var scopedSp = scope.getServiceProvider();

            MyService singleton = scopedSp.getRequiredService(MyService.class);
            MyScopedService scoped = scopedSp.getRequiredService(MyScopedService.class);

            singleton.doWork();
            scoped.doSomething();
        }
    }
}
```

### Connecting to an existing Guice injector

If you already have a Guice `Injector`, call `connectAndBuild` to reuse it:

```java
import com.google.inject.Guice;
import com.google.inject.Injector;
import com.myservicebus.di.ServiceCollection;
import com.myservicebus.di.ServiceProvider;

Injector existing = Guice.createInjector();
ServiceCollection services = new ServiceCollection();
services.addSingleton(MyService.class, MyServiceImpl.class);

ServiceProvider provider = services.connectAndBuild(existing);
```

### Registering bindings for factories

Sometimes the service you want to register is itself a factory. Use the
overload that accepts a lambda so the factory can resolve any dependencies
from the `ServiceProvider` before constructing itself:

```java
services.addSingleton(WidgetFactory.class, sp -> () -> {
    Dependency dep = sp.getRequiredService(Dependency.class);
    return new WidgetFactory(dep);
});

WidgetFactory factory = provider.getService(WidgetFactory.class);
Widget widget = factory.create();
```

Constructor injection using Guice's `@Inject`:

```java
package com.myservicebus;

import com.google.inject.Inject;
import com.myservicebus.di.ServiceProvider;

public class MyServiceImpl implements MyService {
    private ServiceProvider serviceProvider;

    @Inject
    public MyServiceImpl(ServiceProvider serviceProvider) {
        this.serviceProvider = serviceProvider;

    }

    public void doWork() {
        var secondService = serviceProvider.getRequiredService(MySecondService.class);
        secondService.doSomething();
    }
}
```

Commit message:

docs(di): document provider injection requirement

docs/java/dependency-injection.md, after:

# Dependency injection

Custom wrapper around Guice. Made to look similar to .NET DI.

Supporting lifetimes, scopes, and injecting `ServiceProvider`.

The default container registers the `ServiceProvider` itself, allowing any
service to take `ServiceProvider` as a dependency and use it to resolve
additional services.

Use `getService` when a missing binding is acceptable or `getRequiredService`
to throw an exception if the service isn't registered, mirroring .NET's
`GetRequiredService`.

```java
package com.myservicebus;

import com.myservicebus.di.ServiceCollection;
import com.myservicebus.di.ServiceProvider;
import com.myservicebus.di.ServiceScope;

public class Main {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        ServiceCollection services = new ServiceCollection();
        services.addSingleton(MyService.class, MyServiceImpl.class);
        services.addScoped(MyScopedService.class);
        services.addScoped(MySecondService.class);

        ServiceProvider provider = services.buildServiceProvider();

        try (ServiceScope scope = provider.createScope()) {
            var scopedSp = scope.getServiceProvider();

            MyService singleton = scopedSp.getRequiredService(MyService.class);
            MyScopedService scoped = scopedSp.getRequiredService(MyScopedService.class);

            singleton.doWork();
            scoped.doSomething();
        }
    }
}
```

### Connecting to an existing Guice injector

If you already have a Guice `Injector`, call `connectAndBuild` to reuse it:

```java
import com.google.inject.Guice;
import com.google.inject.Injector;
import com.myservicebus.di.ServiceCollection;
import com.myservicebus.di.ServiceProvider;

Injector existing = Guice.createInjector();
ServiceCollection services = new ServiceCollection();
services.addSingleton(MyService.class, MyServiceImpl.class);

ServiceProvider provider = services.connectAndBuild(existing);
```

### Registering bindings for factories

Sometimes the service you want to register is itself a factory. Use the
overload that accepts a lambda so the factory can resolve any dependencies
from the `ServiceProvider` before constructing itself:

```java
services.addSingleton(WidgetFactory.class, sp -> () -> {
    Dependency dep = sp.getRequiredService(Dependency.class);
    return new WidgetFactory(dep);
});

WidgetFactory factory = provider.getService(WidgetFactory.class);
Widget widget = factory.create();
```

Constructor injection using Guice's `@Inject`:

```java
package com.myservicebus;

import com.google.inject.Inject;
import com.myservicebus.di.ServiceProvider;

public class MyServiceImpl implements MyService {
    private ServiceProvider serviceProvider;

    @Inject
    public MyServiceImpl(ServiceProvider serviceProvider) {
        this.serviceProvider = serviceProvider;

    }

    public void doWork() {
        var secondService = serviceProvider.getRequiredService(MySecondService.class);
        secondService.doSomething();
    }
}
```
