docs/quick-start.md, before:

# Quick Start

This guide compares basic usage of MyServiceBus in C# and Java. It covers setup, configuration, transports, and the common ways to publish, send, and consume messages, including the in-memory mediator.

## Setup and Configuration

### C#

```csharp
var builder = WebApplication.CreateBuilder(args);

builder.Services.AddServiceBus(x =>
{
    x.AddConsumer<SubmitOrderConsumer>();
    x.UsingRabbitMq((context, cfg) =>
    {
        cfg.Host("localhost", h =>
        {
            h.Username("guest");
            h.Password("guest");
        });

        cfg.ConfigureEndpoints(context);
    });
});
```

### Java

```java
ServiceCollection services = new ServiceCollection();

RabbitMqBus bus = RabbitMqBus.configure(services, x -> {
    x.addConsumer(SubmitOrderConsumer.class);
}, (context, cfg) -> {
    cfg.host("rabbitmq://localhost");

    cfg.receiveEndpoint("submit-order-queue", e -> {
        e.configureConsumer(context, SubmitOrderConsumer.class);
    });
});

bus.start();
```

## Publishing

### C#

```csharp
IMessageBus bus = serviceProvider.GetRequiredService<IMessageBus>();
await bus.Publish(new SubmitOrder { OrderId = Guid.NewGuid() });
```

### Java

```java
bus.publish(new SubmitOrder(UUID.randomUUID()));
```

## Sending

### C#

```csharp
ISendEndpoint endpoint = serviceProvider.GetRequiredService<ISendEndpoint>();
await endpoint.Send(new SubmitOrder { OrderId = Guid.NewGuid() });
```

### Java

```java
SendEndpointProvider provider = serviceProvider.getService(SendEndpointProvider.class);
SendEndpoint endpoint = provider.getSendEndpoint("rabbitmq://localhost/submit-order");
endpoint.send(new SubmitOrder(UUID.randomUUID()), CancellationToken.none).join();
```

## Consuming Messages

### C#

```csharp
class SubmitOrderConsumer : IConsumer<SubmitOrder>
{
    public async Task Consume(ConsumeContext<SubmitOrder> context)
    {
        await context.Publish(new OrderSubmitted(context.Message.OrderId));
    }
}
```

### Java

```java
class SubmitOrderConsumer implements Consumer<SubmitOrder> {
    @Override
    public CompletableFuture<Void> consume(ConsumeContext<SubmitOrder> context) {
        return context.publish(new OrderSubmitted(context.getMessage().getOrderId()), CancellationToken.none);
    }
}
```

## Request/Response

### C#

```csharp
class CheckOrderStatusConsumer : IConsumer<CheckOrderStatus>
{
    public async Task Consume(ConsumeContext<CheckOrderStatus> context)
    {
        await context.RespondAsync(new OrderStatus(context.Message.OrderId, "Pending"));
    }
}

var client = serviceProvider.GetRequiredService<IRequestClient<CheckOrderStatus>>();
Response<OrderStatus> response = await client.GetResponseAsync<OrderStatus>(new CheckOrderStatus { OrderId = Guid.NewGuid() });
Console.WriteLine(response.Message.Status);
```

### Java

```java
class CheckOrderStatusConsumer implements Consumer<CheckOrderStatus> {
    @Override
    public CompletableFuture<Void> consume(ConsumeContext<CheckOrderStatus> context) {
        return context.respond(new OrderStatus(context.getMessage().getOrderId(), "Pending"), CancellationToken.none);
    }
}

RequestClientFactory factory = serviceProvider.getService(RequestClientFactory.class);
RequestClient<CheckOrderStatus> client = factory.create(CheckOrderStatus.class);
OrderStatus response = client.getResponse(new CheckOrderStatus(UUID.randomUUID()), OrderStatus.class, CancellationToken.none).join();
System.out.println(response.getStatus());
```

## Mediator (In-Memory Transport)

### C#

```csharp
builder.Services.AddServiceBus(x =>
{
    x.AddConsumer<SubmitOrderConsumer>();
    x.UsingMediator();
});
```

### Java

```java
ServiceCollection services = new ServiceCollection();
MediatorBus bus = MediatorBus.configure(services, cfg -> {
    cfg.addConsumer(SubmitOrderConsumer.class);
});

bus.publish(new SubmitOrder(UUID.randomUUID()));
```

The mediator dispatches messages in-memory, making it useful for lightweight scenarios and testing without a broker.

## Unit Testing with the In-Memory Test Harness

### C#

```csharp
[Fact]
public async Task publishes_order_submitted()
{
    var harness = new InMemoryTestHarness();
    await harness.Start();

    harness.RegisterHandler<SubmitOrder>(async context =>
    {
        await context.PublishAsync(new OrderSubmitted(context.Message.OrderId));
    });

    await harness.Send(new SubmitOrder { OrderId = Guid.NewGuid() });

    Assert.True(harness.WasConsumed<SubmitOrder>());

    await harness.Stop();
}
```

### Java

```java
@Test
public void publishesOrderSubmitted() {
    InMemoryTestHarness harness = new InMemoryTestHarness();
    harness.start().join();

    harness.registerHandler(SubmitOrder.class, ctx ->
        ctx.publish(new OrderSubmitted(ctx.getMessage().getOrderId()), CancellationToken.none)
    );

    harness.send(new SubmitOrder(UUID.randomUUID())).join();
    assertTrue(harness.wasConsumed(SubmitOrder.class));

    harness.stop().join();
}
```

The harness enables verifying message flows in isolation without needing a running broker.

Commit message:

docs: explain cross-language design decisions (#54)
* docs: explain cross-language design decisions

* docs: link design decisions from quick start

docs/quick-start.md, after:

# Quick Start

This guide compares basic usage of MyServiceBus in C# and Java. It covers setup, configuration, transports, and the common ways to publish, send, and consume messages, including the in-memory mediator.

For an explanation of why the C# and Java examples differ, see the [design decisions](design-decisions.md).

## Setup and Configuration

### C#

```csharp
var builder = WebApplication.CreateBuilder(args);

builder.Services.AddServiceBus(x =>
{
    x.AddConsumer<SubmitOrderConsumer>();
    x.UsingRabbitMq((context, cfg) =>
    {
        cfg.Host("localhost", h =>
        {
            h.Username("guest");
            h.Password("guest");
        });

        cfg.ConfigureEndpoints(context);
    });
});
```

### Java

```java
ServiceCollection services = new ServiceCollection();

RabbitMqBus bus = RabbitMqBus.configure(services, x -> {
    x.addConsumer(SubmitOrderConsumer.class);
}, (context, cfg) -> {
    cfg.host("rabbitmq://localhost");

    cfg.receiveEndpoint("submit-order-queue", e -> {
        e.configureConsumer(context, SubmitOrderConsumer.class);
    });
});

bus.start();
```

## Publishing

### C#

```csharp
IMessageBus bus = serviceProvider.GetRequiredService<IMessageBus>();
await bus.Publish(new SubmitOrder { OrderId = Guid.NewGuid() });
```

### Java

```java
bus.publish(new SubmitOrder(UUID.randomUUID()));
```

## Sending

### C#

```csharp
ISendEndpoint endpoint = serviceProvider.GetRequiredService<ISendEndpoint>();
await endpoint.Send(new SubmitOrder { OrderId = Guid.NewGuid() });
```

### Java

```java
SendEndpointProvider provider = serviceProvider.getService(SendEndpointProvider.class);
SendEndpoint endpoint = provider.getSendEndpoint("rabbitmq://localhost/submit-order");
endpoint.send(new SubmitOrder(UUID.randomUUID()), CancellationToken.none).join();
```

## Consuming Messages

### C#

```csharp
class SubmitOrderConsumer : IConsumer<SubmitOrder>
{
    public async Task Consume(ConsumeContext<SubmitOrder> context)
    {
        await context.Publish(new OrderSubmitted(context.Message.OrderId));
    }
}
```

### Java

```java
class SubmitOrderConsumer implements Consumer<SubmitOrder> {
    @Override
    public CompletableFuture<Void> consume(ConsumeContext<SubmitOrder> context) {
        return context.publish(new OrderSubmitted(context.getMessage().getOrderId()), CancellationToken.none);
    }
}
```

## Request/Response

### C#

```csharp
class CheckOrderStatusConsumer : IConsumer<CheckOrderStatus>
{
    public async Task Consume(ConsumeContext<CheckOrderStatus> context)
    {
        await context.RespondAsync(new OrderStatus(context.Message.OrderId, "Pending"));
    }
}

var client = serviceProvider.GetRequiredService<IRequestClient<CheckOrderStatus>>();
Response<OrderStatus> response = await client.GetResponseAsync<OrderStatus>(new CheckOrderStatus { OrderId = Guid.NewGuid() });
Console.WriteLine(response.Message.Status);
```

### Java

```java
class CheckOrderStatusConsumer implements Consumer<CheckOrderStatus> {
    @Override
    public CompletableFuture<Void> consume(ConsumeContext<CheckOrderStatus> context) {
        return context.respond(new OrderStatus(context.getMessage().getOrderId(), "Pending"), CancellationToken.none);
    }
}

RequestClientFactory factory = serviceProvider.getService(RequestClientFactory.class);
RequestClient<CheckOrderStatus> client = factory.create(CheckOrderStatus.class);
OrderStatus response = client.getResponse(new CheckOrderStatus(UUID.randomUUID()), OrderStatus.class, CancellationToken.none).join();
System.out.println(response.getStatus());
```

## Mediator (In-Memory Transport)

### C#

```csharp
builder.Services.AddServiceBus(x =>
{
    x.AddConsumer<SubmitOrderConsumer>();
    x.UsingMediator();
});
```

### Java

```java
ServiceCollection services = new ServiceCollection();
MediatorBus bus = MediatorBus.configure(services, cfg -> {
    cfg.addConsumer(SubmitOrderConsumer.class);
});

bus.publish(new SubmitOrder(UUID.randomUUID()));
```

The mediator dispatches messages in-memory, making it useful for lightweight scenarios and testing without a broker.

## Unit Testing with the In-Memory Test Harness

### C#

```csharp
[Fact]
public async Task publishes_order_submitted()
{
    var harness = new InMemoryTestHarness();
    await harness.Start();

    harness.RegisterHandler<SubmitOrder>(async context =>
    {
        await context.PublishAsync(new OrderSubmitted(context.Message.OrderId));
    });

    await harness.Send(new SubmitOrder { OrderId = Guid.NewGuid() });

    Assert.True(harness.WasConsumed<SubmitOrder>());

    await harness.Stop();
}
```

### Java

```java
@Test
public void publishesOrderSubmitted() {
    InMemoryTestHarness harness = new InMemoryTestHarness();
    harness.start().join();

    harness.registerHandler(SubmitOrder.class, ctx ->
        ctx.publish(new OrderSubmitted(ctx.getMessage().getOrderId()), CancellationToken.none)
    );

    harness.send(new SubmitOrder(UUID.randomUUID())).join();
    assertTrue(harness.wasConsumed(SubmitOrder.class));

    harness.stop().join();
}
```

The harness enables verifying message flows in isolation without needing a running broker.
