docs/two-service-sample.md, before:

# Two-service sample

This sample runs the existing .NET and Java test apps together using MyServiceBus. The Java service is run twice to demonstrate multiple consumers processing the same queue.

## 1. Start RabbitMQ

Use the provided compose file to start RabbitMQ:

```bash
docker compose up rabbitmq
```

## 2. Run the .NET service

```bash
dotnet run --project src/TestApp
```

The service listens on `http://localhost:5112` and publishes `SubmitOrder` messages when its `/publish` endpoint is called.

## 3. Run two Java service replicas

Run the Java test app twice on different ports. Gradle will build only the requested module and its dependencies.

In two separate terminals, from the repository root:

```bash
# Build all Java modules (once)
./gradlew build -x test

# Instance 1
RABBITMQ_HOST=localhost HTTP_PORT=5301 ./gradlew -p testapp run

# Instance 2
RABBITMQ_HOST=localhost HTTP_PORT=5302 ./gradlew -p testapp run
```

Notes:
- `RABBITMQ_HOST` defaults to `localhost` if not set.
- `HTTP_PORT` selects the HTTP port for each replica.
- `-p` selects the project; Gradle builds the module and its dependencies automatically.
- See `src/Java/README.md` for full Java build/run details and optional JDK 17 toolchain enforcement.

Each instance consumes `SubmitOrder` messages from the same queue.

## 4. Publish a message

From another terminal call the .NET service:

```bash
curl http://localhost:5112/publish
```

One of the Java replicas logs the `SubmitOrder` and responds with `OrderSubmitted`, including its `HTTP_PORT` so the .NET service logs which replica processed the order.

To send from Java instead, call either Java instance:

```bash
curl http://localhost:5301/publish
```

The .NET service logs the received `SubmitOrder`.

## Troubleshooting
- If Gradle reports missing modules, run a full build first:
  ```bash
  (cd src/Java && ./gradlew build -x test)
  ```
- Ensure RabbitMQ is reachable at `RABBITMQ_HOST` and credentials are `guest/guest` (default in compose).

Commit message:

docs: describe Java sample error handling

docs/two-service-sample.md, after:

# Two-service sample

This sample runs the existing .NET and Java test apps together using MyServiceBus. The Java service is run twice to demonstrate multiple consumers processing the same queue.

## 1. Start RabbitMQ

Use the provided compose file to start RabbitMQ:

```bash
docker compose up rabbitmq
```

## 2. Run the .NET service

```bash
dotnet run --project src/TestApp
```

The service listens on `http://localhost:5112` and publishes `SubmitOrder` messages when its `/publish` endpoint is called.

## 3. Run two Java service replicas

Run the Java test app twice on different ports. Gradle will build only the requested module and its dependencies.

In two separate terminals, from the repository root:

```bash
# Build all Java modules (once)
./gradlew build -x test

# Instance 1
RABBITMQ_HOST=localhost HTTP_PORT=5301 ./gradlew -p testapp run

# Instance 2
RABBITMQ_HOST=localhost HTTP_PORT=5302 ./gradlew -p testapp run
```

Notes:
- `RABBITMQ_HOST` defaults to `localhost` if not set.
- `HTTP_PORT` selects the HTTP port for each replica.
- `-p` selects the project; Gradle builds the module and its dependencies automatically.
- See `src/Java/README.md` for full Java build/run details and optional JDK 17 toolchain enforcement.

Each instance consumes `SubmitOrder` messages from the same queue.

### Java consumer failures

The Java `SubmitOrderConsumer` calls a service that randomly throws to simulate processing errors. Failed `SubmitOrder` messages land in the `submit-order_error` queue, where a handler forwards them back to `queue:submit-order` for another attempt.

## 4. Publish a message

From another terminal call the .NET service:

```bash
curl http://localhost:5112/publish
```

One of the Java replicas logs the `SubmitOrder` and responds with `OrderSubmitted`, including its `HTTP_PORT` so the .NET service logs which replica processed the order.

To send from Java instead, call either Java instance:

```bash
curl http://localhost:5301/publish
```

The .NET service logs the received `SubmitOrder`.

## Troubleshooting
- If Gradle reports missing modules, run a full build first:
  ```bash
  (cd src/Java && ./gradlew build -x test)
  ```
- Ensure RabbitMQ is reachable at `RABBITMQ_HOST` and credentials are `guest/guest` (default in compose).
